<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="de" lang="de" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <title>Scenario 2: Central Optimistic</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/document.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/springer.css" />
  </head>
  <body class="content" data-title="Scenario 2: Central Optimistic">
    <div class="article-part article-title" id="_8_0">Scenario 2: Central Optimistic</div>
    <div class="article-part article-richtext article-body">
      <p />
      <table id="T82303171" class="table-100 table-center table-fixed" data-width="100" data-aligned="center" data-layout="fixed" data-category="none">
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td>
              <p>Transmissibility </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Immune escape </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Intrinsic severity</p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Realised severity</p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>
              <p>Orange</p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Orange</p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Orange</p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Green</p>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>
      <p />
      <p>Narrative: Increasing global immunity leads to generally lower realised severity. Waves of infection are driven by cycles of significant waning immunity and/or the emergence of new variants either from Omicron or other lineages. The general pattern is of annual seasonal infection with good and bad years, the latter with high transmissibility and intrinsic severity similar to Delta. Severe illness and mortality largely limited to vulnerable, elderly and those without prior immunity. Regularly updated vaccines given annually to the vulnerable and to others in bad years. Voluntary protective behaviours are high during waves. Some countries impose NPIs (e.g. face coverings) in bad years. Anti-viral resistance begins to appear and limits use until combination therapies are available. In the next 12-18 months: Seasonal wave of infections in Autumn/Winter with comparable size and realised severity to the current Omicron wave.</p>
      <p />
    </div>
    <section class="fnlist" role="doc-endnotes" />
  </body>
</html>