<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="de" lang="de" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <title>Scenario 4: Reasonable Worst-Case</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/document.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/springer.css" />
  </head>
  <body class="content" data-title="Scenario 4: Reasonable Worst-Case">
    <div class="article-part article-title" id="_10_0">Scenario 4: Reasonable Worst-Case</div>
    <div class="article-part article-richtext article-body">
      <p />
      <table id="T84060331" class="table-100 table-center table-fixed" data-width="100" data-aligned="center" data-layout="fixed" data-category="none">
        <tbody>
          <tr>
            <td>
              <p>Transmissibility </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Immune escape </p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Intrinsic severity</p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Realised severity</p>
            </td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
            <td>
              <p>Red</p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Red</p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Red</p>
            </td>
            <td>
              <p>Red</p>
            </td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>
      <p />
      <p>Narrative: High global incidence, incomplete global vaccination and circulation in animal reservoirs leads to repeated emergence of variants, including through recombination (exchange of genetic material between different variants infecting the same cell). Not all variants are equally challenging, but some show significant immune escape with respect to immunity from vaccines and prior infection. Unpredictable changes in how the virus causes disease alters the rate and age profile of severe disease and mortality, with increased long-term impacts following infection. Widespread annual vaccination with updated vaccines is required. Anti-viral resistance widespread. Voluntary protective behaviours are largely absent and/or a source of societal conflict. Significant use of NPIs is needed, especially when new variants outpace vaccine updates (and/or testing technologies fail). In the next 12-18 months: This leads to a very large wave of infections with increased levels of severe disease seen across a broad range of the population, although the most severe health outcomes continue to be felt primarily among those with no prior immunity.</p>
      <p />
    </div>
    <section class="fnlist" role="doc-endnotes" />
  </body>
</html>